

# Master thesis structure draft


no Front page. It is auto-generated by NTNU.

* Abstract
* Sammendrag
* Acknowledgements
* Introduction
  * topic, purpose, relevance, what to expect from thesis
  * Scope (Narrow down scope)
  * Research questions and objectives
  * Overview of thesis structure.
* Background
  * Design Science
  * Agile
  * Stakeholders
  * MDD and EMF
    * EMF libraries (validation, transaction) ?
  * Eclipse EMF, genmodel, Eclipse RCP
    * Editors (graphical, xml textual, tree)
    * Eclipse+plugin as a target/output for new workbench/editor
  * Vscode and Theia
  * Gitpod, openvsx
  * Theia Tree Editor
  * Vscode custom editor
  * LSP and GLSP
  * EMFCloud model-server
  * Observed trends in modern development
    * Json configurations
    * CI/CD
    * Configurability
    * Static typing for code navigation
    * CLI applications (create-react-app, npx, vue-cli, prettier)
    * Lint (eslint, prettier)
    * Modularity (submodules, multiple packages)
    * Web technologies (html/css/ts, electron)
    * Thorough, online documentation with examples and guides
    * Publicly available issue tracker
    * Open Source
  * Architecture and quality
    * Based on existing projects. Empirical evidence
      * LSP: Likely more maintainable because more recognizable
* Litterature review (?)
  * Approach
    * Databases, queries
  * Results
    * LSP
    * Tree editors
  * Gaps in the litterature
    * Protocol design for editors
    * Tree editor requirements
    * Feasibility and reccomended design of such editors
* Method (Design science)
  * Design Science
    * Evaluation of value
    * Analysis method
  * How to ensure rigour
  * Agile sprints, mvp, iterations
  * Pragmatic programmer "tracer bullets"
  * Domain driven design inspired (but anemic and without aggregates etc.)
  * Prototyping to test feasibility
  * Google-style Design documents for lean requirements spec
  * Tools
    * Vscode, typescript, npm, intellij, java, maven, git, github
* Results
  * Environment components and context
  * Identified functional and non-functional requirements
  * Architecture and components
  * Implemented features
  * TLSP protocol design and the principles/values behind its design
  * Anemic domain models for tree documents
  * Acceptance test results on confluence EMF tasks
* Evaluation
  * Acceptance test success/failure
  * Value of solution to stakeholders
    * Value of editor
    * Value of protocol design
    * Value of tree editor for reuse
  * Research question answers
* Discussion
  * Findings wrt to research questions
  * Is the solution as good as assumed?
    * If the method was used correctly, the solution should be good.
  * Value of completing this work
  * Value of replacing EMF with something else
  * Value of sticking to Eclipse for EMF
  * Using ecore-glsp or Theia Tree Editor instead
    * Theia only
    * diagrams only, prefer trees for ecore. Anecdotal, is there research behind this?
    * Provide a generic tree editor for other vscode extensions
  * Choices made of the design of this solution
    * Self-made tree editor vs off-the-shelf library vs integrated tree viewer
    * VSCode or Theia-only
    * Generic or specialized JSON-RPC protocol
    * JSON-RPC vs REST for server
    * Why server instead of pure vscode-extension code
    * Shortcuts chosen
    * Major outstanding areas of work
      * EMF Forms
      * Context-menu
      * User-specified label logic
      * Dynamic server using end-user `.edit`-javacode
      * Validation
      * Code navigation (source-links (ala `myfile.java:86:3`), ctrl-click an element to go to its declaration)
      * Model analysis (`find usages`, `refactor/rename`)
      * Editor-creation (custom Theia, Eclipse+plugin)
      * Model debugging
      * Keyboard shortcuts
  * Amount of work required to complete this work. Is it justified? Is this worth pursuing?
  * Limitations, what can't the results answer?
    * If students would use a more finished extension
    * Of other vscode extensions would be made with a tree editor
    * If EMF itself could be replaced with something better
* Conclusion
  * Main research question answer
  * Main findings
  * What was not known before? Why does this research matter?
  * Further work
* References
* Appendix